Vocabulary

nourishing: promoting life, growth and/ or strength

experimentation: the act of conducting a controlled test or investigation

enthusiasm: great excitement for or interest in a subject or cause

equip: to supply with necessities such as tools and provisions

concept: an abstract idea or notion

"Jubiolation"

During a holiday in the USA, some young business people were impressed by the number of juice bars which seem to have taken over from traditional coffee shops. On their return, they decided to bring this concept to the fashionable Covent Garden area of London and opened Jubiolation, a New York-style juice bar cafe. Jubiolation sells fruit- and milk based Drinks, and sandwiches made exclusively from organically produced ingredients.

A Business Proposal

Now the founders of Jubiolation would like to expand, and open up further branches in other parts of London, and in Berlin and Copenhagen. They have decided to approach Hardman and Nailver, a venture capital organization, for financial backing.

Jubiolation has sent an intial business plan to Hardman and Nailer. Let's read some extracts from the proposal. This might give you some useful ideas for writing a business proposal negotiating financial backup.

Our concept
Our products are ethical. They are good for consumers. Our concept will help to encourage organic farming and help the environment. We promise customers a healthy and nourishing alternative to fast food such ad hamburgers and fries.

USPs (Unique Sales Points) and Special Service
Only totally organic sandwich bar in London. Affordable prices. Text-message orders - great for people in a hurry. Order your own sandwich on-line from a list of ingredients. Delivery can be arranged at a small extra cost. International choice of fillings.



