Tips for technical interviewing

Practice programming

Most candidates report that spending at least an hour or two brushing up on basic algorithms and data structures and doing a few practice problems on sites like Codewars is helpful.

Strategize
Strategize your approach around the two things we are judging you most: You ability to create working solutions to the problem, and to a lesser extent the optimality of your solution. If you have a working algorithm in mind but aren't sure if it's optimal, don't spend more than a minute or two trying to find a more optimal approach. Your interviewer will help guide you on this decision.

Manage your time wisely
The problems are designed so that you shouldn't need rush, but don't spend time gold-plating a solution when you could be moving on to the next problem. If your interviewer feels you are spending extra time on something that won't meaningfully factor into your evaluation, they will let you know.

Text your code
The extent to which you test won't be factored into your assessment(not because testing isn't important, but to minimize the number of things you need to think about prioritizing during your interview). Quickly testing each piece of functionality as you build it can help keep the overall complexity down as you build up your solution.

Stay organized
Factoring your code cleanly and using sensible variable names may be helpful to keep things clear in you head.
However, you won't be judged on this. just because you write an overly-long function in a time-constrained interview doesn't mean you're incapable of factoring your code well on the job.

Ask questions
If you're unsure about anything, ask your interviewer. Our problems are designed to not have "gotchas" and to be as unambiguous as possible, but it's natural that there may still be areas of the question that you're unclear on or that you'd like clarified. Ask questions early and often; your interviewer will welcome it!

Consider edge cases
When you've solved a problem, take 30-60 seconds to thing through whether you have any edge case bugs before saying your solution is complete. There is a slight penalty if an interviewer needs to point out an edge case to you vs. you discovering it yourself. Don't spend more than a minute on this, though; the penalty is small and it will be better to move on that to spend too much time double-checking your solution. Your interviewer will help you navigate this situation; they'll ask you to double check that you think the problem is fully working and encourage you to move on if it's in your best interest.

